.TH goto-tool 1 "December 12, 2013" "version 3.1.1" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
goto-tool \- Manage your favourite directories by names
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B goto-tool
[get <name> | list | add <name> <path> | rm <name> | mv <name1> <name2> | path]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Long filesystem paths are hard to type and to remember, even with features
like tab completion. This tool tries to compensate this by managing your
favourite (long) directory paths by a shorter name.
.PP
This tool is the foundation for other tools like goget(1) and goto(1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
get <name>
Prints the path associated with the given name
.TP
list
Prints all the stored names and their respective paths.
.TP
add <name> <path>
Stores the given path under the given name in the list and makes it possible
to retrieve the path with that name using the 'get' command.
The given path is expanded, that is, if you're passing '.' as the path,
the full path to the current directory starting from / is used.
.TP
rm <name>
Remove the path identified by the given name from the list.
.TP
mv <name1> <name2>
Renames the entry identified by name1 and renames it to name2.
.TP
lookup <path>
Reverse lookup of the path to the shortcut name. Prints all matches.
.TP
path
Prints the path of the database of goto-tool(1).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
\fIGOTO_DATABASE\fR
.RS 4
Using this environment variable one can set an alternative database file.
If it's not given, the default mentioned in FILES is used.
.RE
.SH FILES
XDG_CONFIG_HOME/goto_tool.sqlite3
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Add the projects folder in your home directory under the name projects
goto-tool add projects ~/projects
.TP
Retrieving the path of the entry named 'projects'
goto-tool get projects
.TP
Rename the name 'projects' to 'oldprojects'
goto-tool mv projects oldprojects
.TP
Remove the entry identified by the name 'oldprojects'
goto-tool rm oldprojects
.SH EXIT STATUS
goto-tool returns zero if no error occured. If the read or the write operation
to the file which holds the entries fails, the exit status will be one.
.SH AUTHOR
nemo (nemo (at) ikkoku.de)
.SH SEE ALSO
goto(1) goget(1) gorun(1)
